---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2017-10-09"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---
- Date: 2017-10-09
- Facilitator: Max
- Notary:
- Present: Laurina, Silja, Matthias, Mona, Doug and Max

===

### 1. People coming this week

- Silja
- Chandi
- Nick

### 2. People leaving this week

- Laurina and Silja on Thursday

### 3. New Volunteers

- Mona
- Max

## ### 4. New Members

## ### 5. Changes to Constitution

## ### 6. Changes to Collective Agreements

### 7. Information (e.g. announcements, events, etc)

- Waste collection: Yellow sack on Friday. (see https://nc.matthias-larisch.de/apps/calendar/#)
- Food pickups: Landgut Nemt on Wednesday at 18:00 and Friday at 18:30. (see https://foodsaving.world/#!/group/28)
- No milk these days at Lantgut Nemt as it is the milk from the school and there is school holidays
- NDK event tonight (Monday) 6-8pm about clothes production (Laurina)
- Osina Wehner form the Tafel/Zuversicht e.V. coming on Tuesday at 5pm (getting to know us better, finding out more matches -> working together)
- Game night + food on Tuesday from 18:30, neighbours invited (Sven , Nicole and Maxi) + Osina Wehner (from the Tafel/Zuversicht e.V.) + Jule (from Villa Klug) + JÃ¶rg Wunderlich (who is a reporter and will do some recording if people give their consent)
- We can go to the small garden to pick up more stuff that the lady wants to get rid of (e.g. greenhouse, etc), today (Monday) at 14:00
- Meeting with Siri about funding on Monday 12:00, Laurina, Matthias and Mona are going
- Animal/ speciecism/ food talk from 10:00 to 12:00 on Wednesday (how to move forward with dumpsterdiving, cooking, eating and communication)
- Marcus comes on Wednesday at 13:00 to look at the wood structure of the roof
- Power hour moved this week to Tuesday 10:00
- Doug wants to do a 'share and tell' to give information about things he wants to give to the Commons, probably during/after some communal meal. (Doug)
- Doug made short doc to try and de-complexify food sorting/using by clarifying categories: https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-public/blob/master/food.md Looking for feedback.
- Doug says that he will not commit to any tasks on Saturdays and Sundays

### 8. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, etc)

- Invitation from Kleingarten association for Friday at 18:00 -> say hello, say a bit about ourselves (values, goals, how we work), get the connection, find out who they are, what conditions would be, what their limits are. Laurina and/or Matthias is/are going to send an email to the Kleingarten to check whether there is another possibility to meet them another time, if not somebody will go (Matthias, Doug?, Mona?)
- proposal to make an informational sheet about the people involved, in private gitlab and folder in the house (https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/blob/master/Kanthausers/Kanthauser%20introduction%20template.md), information (Laurina), people can feel free to answer/share any information they wish
- proposal: to include 'concern' in our collective language. Whilst resistance means direct opposition to a stated action, a concern is a hypothetical opposition to a side-effect.

- Commited tasks:

  - Doug is going to clean the jars we collected
  - Silje will prepare apple puree with the collected apples and pears
  - (tasks people have said they want to do this week)

### 9. Next facilitator

- Matthias
