---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2018-03-12"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---
- Date: 2018-03-12
- Facilitator: Matthias
- Notary:
- Present: Bodhi, Lise, Adam, Michal, Nick, Matthias, Björn, Kurtis, Wolfi, Silvan

===

### 1. People arriving and leaving
-coming:  laurina on monday
-  going: laurina on wednesday? Lise and Bodhi wednesday, Silvan on Thursday

### 2. Evaluations (Current Position, days til evaluation)
- Björn, Michal and Adam are due to be evaluated in their current positions; today, 5pm in the cloud room
- Anja and Matthias  will be evaluated later when doug and janina are back


### 3. Changes to Constitution

### 4. Changes to Collective Agreements
-

### 5. Information (e.g. announcements, events, etc)
- Waste collection: (see https://cloud.kanthaus.online/remote.php/dav/calendars/matthias/mll_shared_by_admin/: Yellow sack on friday
- Food pickups: (see https://foodsharing.de ): Landgut Nemt, Wednesday, 18:00
- Gas (0.545€ per m³ + 0,23€ per day):
  - Last week: €11.90 per day
  - This week: €4.29 per day
- Gas bottles bought (€12): €0
- Water (5€ per m³):
  - Last week:€3.93 per day
  - This week: €2.80 per day
- Electricity usage (0.2595€ per kWh and 0,245 per day):
  - Last week:€4.40 per day
  - This week: €3.95 per day
- Income: 50€
- Insect meeting: Skipped this week
- Power hour: Thursday, 10:00
- Sharing event: Friday, 17:00 (Adam facilitates)
- get a second waste bin when bodhi or wolfi sign up for waste
- Stammtisch about the "Ausländerproblematik" at Crostigal? When exactly? -> calendar -> nobody seems interested
- please pee in different areas of the garden, also other corners apart from the one at the 18-wall are happy about manure (Laurina)
- please mark shelves in upstairs communal closet (signs?)
- introduction to dishes shelf in the kitchen
- store away bags in personal storage if you are here for longer
- wooden things and knives in the dishwasher
- everyone is invited to answer the phone!
- Stadtwandler Treffen wednesday at 7pm in crostigall

### 6. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, etc)
- bought (unmarked) food in the kitchen: what do people think of this? maybe mark it, or put it in a special place? [Bodhi] -> We try putting it all in a marked shelf
- Adam is looking into getting a soy milk producing machine and looks into more details to be presented at next CoMe
- bank account is ready? can progress with recurring donation thing? (yes, Matthias already send the transfer but then forgot about it -> will finish it today)
- gitbook handbook ready to start? (Roadmap Group 2?) -> Nick puts a gitlab task
- investigate the hosted gitbook vs self hosted
- gitlab issues management
- Meeting about progressing house bus data collection/visualization today after dinner (8ish?) with silvan/nick/matthias/+
https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/issues/77
- get a coffee grinder! some people like doing it manually, maybe Nick will bring his electric coffee grinder in a few weeks
- Please sort in food after washing or leave it downstairs, not just put it all in front of the shelf

### 7. Next facilitator
- Nick
