---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2018-01-02"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

- Date: 2018-01-02
- Facilitator: Matthias
- Notary: Matthias
- Present: Janina, Bodhi, Wolfie, Berit, Lise, Björn, Anja, Doug, Felix, Josi, Anna, Silvan, Kathrin

===

### 1. People arriving and leaving
- Today: Pia, Fritz, Rosina (up to 7 in total) (for 1-? days)
- 3. or 4. 1.: Silja, Lucas, Agi, Q (for 1-2 days)
- 3/4/5.1.: Björns Berliners (2 people for 2-4 days)
- 6.1.: Tilmann (with parents and Wolfram, they will stay for one night if there is space; will bring lots of dd'ed food if we can use it); Tilmann might stay longer.
- We are currently approx. 17 people here

### 2. Position evaluation
- Bodhi and Wolfi can apply to become Members or reapply to become volunteers
-

### 3. Changes to Constitution
-

### 4. Changes to Collective Agreements
-

### 5. Information (e.g. announcements, events, etc)
- Waste collection: (see https://abfallkalender.kell-gmbh.de/abfallkalender3.php?jahr=2018&str_id=245): Yellow Sacks saturday afternoon
- Food pickups: (see https://karrot.world ): Landgut Nemt, Weds, 18:00  (Björn goes)
- Gas usage: 66 m³ in 8 days (5.80€ per day)
- Gas bottles exchanged: Cooker on 28.12.
- Water usage: 7m³ in 8 days (1 dumpster, 2.4 k20-1, 3.0 k20-2 (4,37€ per day):
- Electricity usage: 49 kWh in 8 days (1,72€ per day)
- Power hour: Today, Tuesday 11.30
- Sharing event: Sunday, 3pm cloud room. Talking circle
- Other
  - Laundry handling: There will be buckets for unsorted laundry on every floor and the sorting will happen downstairs directly before washing.
  - Proposed sorting: towels+sponges (60-90 color); bedsheets + underwear + socks (60 soft); dark clothes + wool socks (40 color/soft); light clothes (40 color/soft); wool/sensitive wear (30-40 fine); Matthias + Silvan build a "shelf" today
  - New website: Still not switched, but janina and matthias care ?today??
  - There is a list of Recommendations - https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-public/blob/master/recommendations.md - sort of like non-collective advice. (Doug)
  - We collect our washing machine waste water now, filter next to washing machine needs to be cleaned after each washing, 750l storage in basement, use for toilet in staircase, missing parts come tomorrow
  - We are prepared to collect rain water, system can be setup in the next days. Find a working group who is interested in implementing
  - direct action workshop: https://grav.kanthaus.online/de/events/2018-01_direct-action Feel free to spread the word.
  - funding meeting: Wednesday, 3.1. 7pm (Rosina, Laurina, Lise, +)
  - building week preplanning Thursday, 4.1. 4pm

### 6. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, etc)
- Proposal: "Kanthaus—a home for project work(ers)" - more descriptive than our current one-liner. In discussion with Laurina. (Doug)
  - start a channel to discuss
- Proposal: Project Updates - we provide a regular opportunity for individuals and groups to present their project work. (Doug)
  - general interest: work into more concrete proposal
- Do a Gitlab workshop... make a poster.
- Proposal: Make the office into a more proper working space: Strict distinction individual/document/office material storage, get away crap, more storage, clear table policy
- What is missing for silent working room/get it ready? (Matthias will look for the screws of laurinas table)
- From last week
  - add a phrase about the residency record in the visitor's doc and tell people that they need to express resistance if they don't want to find their name in the file. (janina)
  - add a phrase about feedback after application procedures (Janina takes care of collecting proposals and will present them in the channel before starting a vote, Matthias said to already adopt the practice informally) https://pad.disroot.org/p/NextConstChange
  - Association meetings took place some days ago. After-meeting to discuss/go over minutes? 5.1. 4pm
  - Gitlab issues will be made public again (by default - except there is private information in there)
  - More foodsharing cooperations: Björn is preparing material
### 7. Next facilitator
- Bodhi
