---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2018-02-26"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

- Date: 2018-02-26
- Facilitator: Doug
- Notary: Doug
- Present: Doug, Matthias, Bodhi, Lukas, Nick, Wolfi, Janina, Laurina, mrkvon, Lise, John, Adam, Björn, Isabel

===

### 1. People arriving and leaving
- Nadine comes for the fsww hackweek (arrival on..?)
- Silvan comes on Monday the 26th (until the 2nd of March probably)
- Kurtis (workawayer) probably comes Fr. the 2nd of March and plans to stay up to 4 weeks
- Anja comes on Saturday

### 2. Evaluations (Current Position, days til evaluation)
- John (visitor, 0)
- Isabel (visitor, 1)
- Doug (Member, )

### 3. Changes to Constitution
- 3rd round started https://ukuvota.world/#/app/9e008e43-110c-376c-22fe-d58a6db7a5da/collect (5 days of voting phase left)

### 4. Changes to Collective Agreements
- 

### 5. Information (e.g. announcements, events, etc)
- Waste collection: (see https://abfallkalender.kell-gmbh.de/abfallkalender3.php?jahr=2018&str_id=245): Yellow sack on Friday, Bio-tonne this Thursday
- Food pickups: (see https://foodsharing.de ): Landgut Nemt, Weds, 18:00
- Gas usage (0.545€ per m³ + 0,23€ per day):
  - Last week: €6.00 per day
  - This week: €9,10 per day
- Gas bottles exchanged (€12): 2 gas bottles
- Water usage(5€ per m³):
  - Last week: €2,62 per day
  - This week: €2,32 per day
- Electricity usage (0.2595€ per kWh and 0,245 per day):
  - Last week: €3,32 per day
  - This week: €3,47 per day
- Income: €10 donation
- Power hour: Thursday, 10:00
- Sharing event: Friday, 17:00
- Spring roadmap meeting: Thursday
- Personal projects meeting: Karrot + personal update celebration on Sunday, 17:00?
- "kritische Psychologie" group from Dresden will meet here from April 20-22. They will be up to 20 people. Please consider this when planning other events during this time. Ask Bodhi for details. 
- Humus-Nord-Orgateam meets in Kanthaus April 5-8. Janina has details. (In general, check and use calendar)
- Thursday 19:00 Silvan organizes an "Auerwold-Stammtisch" at PizzaLab, everybody can join :) (Further and future guest can talk about their ideas, wishes, feelings about Auerworld-festival)
- Insurance contract for Haus Kante Wurzen (mainly about house/building stuff) on its way; more information for an insurance for wandel würzen on its way.
- Post Inbox now in Office shelf, bottom-most in the middle (cardboard box "Inbox")
- Did somebody see the Kabelscheere/cable knive? (red; please don't misuse!)

### 6. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, etc)
 - Proposal: Start Insect Farming Focus Group. Suggestion: meet every Tuesday at 4pm in the office (managed by Wolfi) (Recommended reading: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hermetia_illucens)
- Info: Nextcloud is now up and running! Hooray Chandi and Nick! The calendars and many of our photos are now located there. Right now we're still in 'testing' until confident, Nick has started an issue for this: https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/issues/78. Be aware, that contents(except calendar/contacts) are not yet backed up!
- Info: John has created a script for processing our records into evaluation notifications :) Running it before the CoMe tells you who to arrange evaluations with. (A record of evaluations is also now kept.) (The Slack integration runs it automatically. Just join #kanthaus-residence and you're all informed! - no it doesn't. it runs tilmanns script which tells you much less. Can discuss how people would like to see info)
- Proposal: record people only if they slept here last night.
  - Current situation: depends largely on the person recording (i.e. Doug or Janina,) usually quite inclusive but excluding local neighbors.
  - Advantage of proposal: reduces labor on recorder, seems to be a more relevant measure of involvement regarding Positions.
  - Disadvantage of proposal: would mean that people who don't sleep here but are otherwise involved wouldn't become Volunteers/Members (i.e. neighbors)
- What interest is there in a Holochain meetup?
  - Some, Adam will post.
- Mold, mold, mold -> suggestion to heat affected rooms (matthias)
- The other wooden things need to be sanded and oiled.
- leaking toilets: very important to stop ALL toilets manualy! maybe think about buying new pressure-less flushing-thingys to waste less waster? Generally the toilet siuation is quite annoying - would be cool to have them all working! Right now #0 is the one that works best for taking a dump.
- Water drain has been clogged this morning (likely for some days already)
- Boiling bigger amounts of water: Big pot on the stove or electric kettle? Can we maybe use the big pot upstairs and move the electric kettle to the silent working space..? :3 Janina would like that very much!
- Very often there is still hot water in the wasserkocher/kettle, bcos the min. filling is 1/2l and people probalby only use it for one cup. Please fill excess water in a thermal flask! -> Actually, ~350ml is the min filling, just make sure that the heating pipes are under water, don't care about the markings.
- minimal viable co-up: nick would like to follow up on this. Doug was interested. 
- Do we want to do illegal advertising? (train station, chalk text on ground with clear reference to us/KüFa)
- A thermometer directly above a radiator is stupid (living room, this morning). Well, it shew 28 degrees...
- Money usage from the box (Spices were bought, do we want to do that?)

### 7. Next facilitator
- Laurina
