---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2018-02-19"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

- Date: 2018-02-19
- Facilitator: Nick
- Notary: Doug
- Present: Nick, John, Doug, Vinzenz, Chandi, Lise, Bodhi, (?)

===

### 1. People arriving and leaving
- mrkvon comes in the beginning of the week and wants to stay for a while
- Tuesday: Isabel arrives
- Thursday: Johann (couchsurfer) for one night, Adam for some days/weeks
- Lukas comes for the fsww hackweek (arrival on Sunday 12:30pm)
- Nadine comes for the fsww hackweek (arrival on..?)
- Silvan comes on Monday the 26th (until the 2nd of March probably)
- Vinzenz leaves today
- John considers options
- chandi leaves on wednesday

### 2. Evaluations (Current Position, days til evaluation)
-

### 3. Changes to Constitution
- Prop 3 selected: https://ukuvota.world/#/app/7fd84a38-0148-6f95-a5ff-6d9c2647b82f/results (over half of Members didn't vote, why?
- 3rd round started https://ukuvota.world/#/app/9e008e43-110c-376c-22fe-d58a6db7a5da/collect (5 days of proposal phase left)

### 4. Changes to Collective Agreements
-

### 5. Information (e.g. announcements, events, etc)
- Waste collection: (see https://abfallkalender.kell-gmbh.de/abfallkalender3.php?jahr=2018&str_id=245): Paper today, rest waste tomorrow
- Food pickups: (see https://foodsharing.de ): Landgut Nemt, Weds, 18:00
- Gas usage (0.545€ per m³ + 0,23€ per day):
  - Last week: €9,70 per day
  - This week: €6.00 per day
- Gas bottles exchanged (€12):
- Water usage(5€ per m³):
  - Last week: €2.04 per day
  - This week: €2,62
- Electricity usage (0.2595€ per kWh and 0,245 per day):
  - Last week: €2,60 per day
  - This week: €3,32
- Income: €0
- Power hour: thursday
- Sharing event: friday, black hat sharing
- Other:

### 6. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, etc)

- Chopping boards: Research indicates that not oiling = breaking, results from sanding + Coconut oil seem good despite potential rancidification seems worth it. Proposal: treat all boards and wooden tools similarly (i.e. sand, oil monthly) and initiate rapid feedback for anyone who leaves them soaking. I would try and fix a broken one using normal PVA, if that doesn't work we can buy some Titebond III.

    --> use one special board for bread, one for meat/fish and one for onions/garlic

- cleaning-task list: https://pad.systemli.org/p/PutzlisteKanthaus Lise is taking care of it for now
- letter box: janina, doug and lise had a talk about letters and the idea of an internal letterbox in Kanthaus (writing letters to each others or give visitors-guests the opportunity for feedback). Should it be placed in the office or foyer? ... foyer was agreed as a good place
- sinks, floors, surfaces ( Doug) move jars to gsp room, bread on valve
- idea to have pegs that can be attached to food serving dishes to mark things as vegan
- the funding thing, Lise (iirc) searched for help with writing financial plans
- kufa next saturday, informal-ish, maybe serve in the foyer, and have the dragon room available
- maybe move the massive printer into k22
- idea to mount the foodsharing boards outside the house for better visibility
- foodsaving worldwide hackweek starts next saturday

### 7. Next facilitator
- Doug

