
---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2018-07-09"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

<!--
Hello facilitator/notary! Thank you for your services. Here is some advice for facilitating coordination meetings:
  - Prepare the meeting a bit beforehand (find out about evaluations, gas, electricity and water usages, waste collections, income, scheduled events). You can ask others to assist you.
  - Notify people 10 minutes before the meeting starts. (Watching the clock is not super fun, people will be grateful if you do it for them.)
  - Start at 10:00 sharp, or earlier if everyone is there. (Waiting is time-wasting, be a time-saver!)
  - If you don't want to take notes yourself ask someone else to take care of that. (This pad can easily be used to read from and write in simultaneously.)
  - Go through the ordered points in order, even if nothing has changed. (They are arranged to try and get the most relevant information to most people.)
  - Feel welcome to moderate conversation if off-topic or too detailed. (Are listeners interested? Are speakers satisfied? Can you identify a sub-group?)
  - Try to finish the meeting before 11:00. (There is always more to talk about and it's important for people to know that CoMes don't take forever.)
  - Leave the room once the meeting has ended. (This sends a clear signal to everyone else that they can also leave and get on with their day.)
  - Take care that the meeting minutes will be put to kanthaus.online. (If you don't know how to do it, ask someone to help you with it. But do it today!)
  - As soon as the minutes are online, empty the pad from all irrelevant things and get it ready for the next facilitator. (Only keep regular events such as CoMe, power hour, regular food pickups and such. Move the counter figures from 'last 7 days' to '7 days before that' and adjust the date to next week.)
  - Please indent list points with a double-space, not a tab-space: the pad has a bug when rendering markdown, adding extra lines. The resulting web-page looks spacey... not in a good way.
  - Have fun!
-->

- Date: 2018-07-09
- Facilitator: Nick
- Notary: Janina, Nick, Matthias
- Present: Tais, Bodhi, Nick, Chandi, Lena, Tilmann, Lise, Matthias, Janina, Isabel

===

### 1. People arriving and leaving
- Johannes just left
- Matthias leaves today until ~saturday
- Lise leaves today for ~a week
- Teddy comes sometime during the week
- Lena leaves on Friday and comes back on Monday
- Chandi leaves on Friday comes back maybe Sunday

### 2. Evaluations <!-- $ python3 ~/kanthaus-private/report_evaluation_statuses.py -->
- Volunteers: Nick
- Visitors: Lena, Adam

Wednesday Evening - 7pm

### 3. Changes to Governance

### 4. Last week review
- Water (€4.5 per m³):
  - Last 7 days: €3.87/day
  - 7 days before that: €1.81 / day
- Electricity usage (€0.2595 per kWh): <!-- https://grafana.yunity.org -->
  - Last 7 days: €2.872/day
  - 7 days before that:  €1.89 / day
- Gas bottles bought (€12 each): 0
- Income (please check the shoe and the box): 0

### 5. Schedule and commitments <!-- https://cloud.kanthaus.online/apps/calendar/ -->
- Monday (today):
- Tuesday:
- Wednesday:
   - Sharing event: Lena 5pm
   - Evaluations: 7pm
- Thursday:
  - Power Hour: Janina
  - Anniversay party: Janina, Isabel 3pm
  - foodsharing Wurzen meeting: 7pm https://foodsharing.de/?page=event&id=9208
- Friday:
  - Market pickup: Bodhi (he will also give a jar of jam to Bejnarowicz)
- Next Monday
  - CoMe Facilitator: Matthias

### 6. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, updates, requests, etc)

- Clearing out dragon room: There is a lot of shit but it's not supposed to be a storage room - let's clear it out! (Matthias)
  - have to delay moving sewing machines to other house as there is no electricity yet
  - silvans personal stuff can move somewhere... upstairs
  - solar inverters can go into the basement
- Clearing out cloud room? When we're at it anyways we could also tidy up the cloud room a bit... ;)
  - please don't bring dirty blankets with grass on them here. Please use blankets from the K22-outdoor chair/blanket storage if you need one outside and put it back there afterwards!
- Nick must tidy up his hifi boxes in the attic
- Pease collect more jars and bottles so we can make lots of jams, kimchis, chutneys, juices, pickles, eventually wines and such. :) (Bodhi and Lise)
  - Glass containers with fitting, unrusty lids should go into the dishwasher and then into boxes
- Workaway requests: Janina proposes to only accept workawayers if one member or volunteer agrees to being the main contact which means integrating them into Kanthaus, finding them tasks and generally being there for them. We have two open requests that should be handled soon: Bety from Mexico (September) and Onur from Turkey (sometime in the next 2 months)
  - general support, although also the point was raised that workawayers are different people and with some it could work to not have a clear schedule and buddy
- Who is actually gonna be here in August? (Janina, thinking of the Transfer people being here for the first month then.)
  - Matthias: 31.7.-7.8. ; from 13.8. onwards;
- Fairteiler schedule: Will be discussed in the fs meeting on Thursday. Be sure to show up if this interests you! ;) (Janina)
- Anniversary video: I now have the 20min video that Laurina made in January 2017 when everything was still empty. The plan is to retrace the steps of that video and record how much everything already changed. I want to show this on Thursday. Who wants to help me make it? (Janina, Isabel)
- Please care about writing down Benji's hours!
  - there is a folder in the office in the Wandel Wurzen folder, somewhere at the back
  - matthias will put a list by a door somewhere.... a small list next to the plant watering list, please use it
- Individual projects presentation? Bigger topic of meaningful/cool things happening by the people in the house.
  - Matthias might want to change the scope and use it to find out what people are actually here for / what they work on individually.
  - The general frame of being here could be clarified, like what we actually expect of people
  - Tilmann suggests to link it to the volmem display in the hallway. The personal projects could be publicly displayed on cards with pictures of people who are committed to them.
  - A meta meeting about this makes sense, but since Matthias would really like to take part we delay it for a week.
  - The PP for June was skipped, and July probably
- Clothes from the communal closet cannot be given away. Temporary system for sorting out: Make a box, leave it in the communal closet for a month so that people can look through them and move the stuff to the free shop afterwards, announce it on Slack. Everything in the free shop can be given away.
  - The key of the flexible bike lock is missing.
  - Clear boundaries.
Fill up the reskip buckets that Bodhi will deal with
  - no glass!
