---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2018-10-15"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

<!--
Hello facilitator/notary! Thank you for your services. Here is some advice for facilitating coordination meetings:
  - Prepare the meeting a bit beforehand (find out about evaluations, gas, electricity and water usages, waste collections, income, scheduled events). You can ask others to assist you.
  - Notify people 10 minutes before the meeting starts. (Watching the clock is not super fun, people will be grateful if you do it for them.)
  - Start at 10:00 sharp, or earlier if everyone is there. (Waiting is time-wasting, be a time-saver!)
  - If you don't want to take notes yourself ask someone else to take care of that. (This pad can easily be used to read from and write in simultaneously.)
  - Go through the ordered points in order, even if nothing has changed. (They are arranged to try and get the most relevant information to most people.)
  - Feel welcome to moderate conversation if off-topic or too detailed. (Are listeners interested? Are speakers satisfied? Can you identify a sub-group?)
  - Try to finish the meeting before 11:00. (There is always more to talk about and it's important for people to know that CoMes don't take forever.)
  - Leave the room once the meeting has ended. (This sends a clear signal to everyone else that they can also leave and get on with their day.)
  - Take care that the meeting minutes will be put to kanthaus.online. (If you don't know how to do it, ask someone to help you with it. But do it today!)
  - As soon as the minutes are online, empty the pad from all irrelevant things and get it ready for the next facilitator. (Only keep regular events such as CoMe, power hour, regular food pickups and such. Move the counter figures from 'last 7 days' to '7 days before that' and adjust the date to next week.)
  - Please indent list points with a double-space, not a tab-space: the pad has a bug when rendering markdown, adding extra lines. The resulting web-page looks spacey... not in a good way.
  - Have fun!
-->

- Date: 2018-10-15
- Facilitator: Doug
- Notary: Doug, Janina
- Present: Silvan, Janina, Doug, Matthias, Chandi, Tilmann, Findus

===

### 1. People arriving and leaving
- Silvan will leave in some days and come back again
- Findus will leave in the middle of the week
- Bodhi and Lise come back on Friday
- foodsharing on festivals people come on Friday and stay over the weekend

### 2. Evaluations and check-ins <!-- press the play button on https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/pipeline_schedules and it will print to #kanthaus-residence -->
- Chandi
- Matthias

### 3. Changes to Governance
- Let's start a change to the Collective Agreements!

### 4. Last week review
- Water (€4.5 per m³):
  - Last 7 days: €1.11/day (+33%)
  - 14 days before that: €0.84/day
- Electricity usage (€0.2595 per kWh): <!-- https://grafana.yunity.org -->
  - Last 7 days: €1.91/day (+91%)
  - 14 days before that: €1.00/day
- Gas bottles bought (€12 each): -
- Income (please check the shoe and the box): -
- Sewage pipe fixed! Yayy (Doug, Bodhi)
- We (Bodhi/Doug) got so involved in fixing the sewage pipe, we forgot Repair Café and Fairteiler :( (Doug)

### 5. Schedule and commitments <!-- https://cloud.kanthaus.online/apps/calendar/ -->
- Monday:
- Tuesday:
  - Hausmüll
  - RepairCafe: 17:00
  - Fairteiler: 19:00 (Janina)
- Wednesday:
  - Daytime Barbecue (Doug)
  - Sharing event: 17:00 (Doug)
  - Evaluations: 19:00
  - Move vehicles
- Thursday:
  - Power hour: 10.00
- Friday
  - Foodsharing @ Festivals meeting starts
  - Market pickup: 12:00
- Saturday:
- Sunday: 
- Next Monday:
  - CoMe facilitator: Silvan

### 6. Food planning
- We have lots of food that needs to be (prepared and) eaten!
- Potato salad and other tupperware with ready-made food in the fridge
- Use onions on the table first
- Doug wants to hold a barbecue this week and grill some pork: Wednesday for lunch

### 7. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, updates, requests, etc)
- Standups @0900 in office
- People unlikely to need Gitlab access removed (Doug)
  - Can we formalize access rights (not only for gitlab)? I will make a draft! (Janina)
- Extensive washing machine parts research (Bodhi)
- Has the Month of Calmness logistics come further? Dependency: hackweek. (Doug) Dependency: WuWiTa (Bodhi + Lise)
- Donation shoe is still missing, what should we use as replacement? (Silvan volunteers himself?)
- Contact made with the nearby Sterngartenodyssee SoLaWi http://sterngartenodyssee.de/SoLaWi (Doug)
- We are half-way through milestone: no issues yet closed. (Doug)
- Bathroom slider-rail: makes terrible noise because the wheel bearing are pitted. (Doug)
- What about the hipster room flooring? I'd like to use the big room for yoga, etc (Doug)
  - The wood will be taken outside. It can be used as fire wood because it's untreated. Doug will remove the nails and put it on a pile. If other people want to reuse the wood for something they can take it from there.
- Update Schaukasten? It has been the same for quite a while now, if somebody wanted to give it a makeover it would be highly appreciated!

### 8. For next week
- Has Isabel returned second set of keys yet? (Doug) maybe use code instead of key if people are away for so long...
- Finding a decision on the rooms/kitchen (Chandi)
