---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2018-01-15"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

- Date: 2018-01-15
- Facilitator: Janina
- Notary: Janina
- Present: Tilmann, Lise, Bodhi, Matthias, Laurina, Doug, Wolfi, Björn, Janina

===

### 1. People arriving and leaving
- Jörg (maybe some of the worshop participants)
- Arno

### 2. Evaluations (Current Position, days til evaluation)
- Bodhi now Member
- Ask and Joachim continue as Visitors

### 3. Changes to Constitution
- Janina and Doug drafting in branch: https://github.com/kanthaus/kanthaus.online/compare/constchange

### 4. Changes to Collective Agreements
- Bodhi wants to add a section about not downloading illegal content

### 5. Information (e.g. announcements, events, etc)
- Waste collection: (see https://abfallkalender.kell-gmbh.de/abfallkalender3.php?jahr=2018&str_id=245): Gelber sack am Freitag
- Food pickups: (see https://karrot.world ): Landgut Nemt, Weds, 18:00 (Björn goes)
- Gas usage (0.70€ per m²):

    Last week: 47 m³ in 6 days (5,48€ per day)

    THIS WEEK: 63m³ in 7 days (6,30€ per day)

- Gas bottles exchanged: 0
- Water usage(5€ per m³):

    Last week: 4m³ in 6 days (3,37€ per day)

    THIS WEEK: 4m³ in 7 days (2,86€ per day)

- Electricity usage (0.28€ per kWh):

    Last week: 46 kWh in 6 days (2,15€ per day)

    THIS WEEK: 55kWh in 7 days (2,20€ per day)

- Income: None
- Power hour: Thursday 10.00
- Sharing event: Friday, 5pm cloud room. Talking circle
- Janina and Matthias applied for google impact funding with foodsharing.de; Janina, Lise and Bodhi applied twice with Kanthaus, Lise, Bodhi, Anna and Steffen applied with Haus X.
- Doug and Björn noticed new mold. We should not forget to air the rooms on a regular basis! Björn wants to have an alarm, Bodhi will try to make one.
- Tuesday Corinna and Roman (HWR) come by.

### 6. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, etc)
- Proposal: Jan 31, individual and work-group progress and planning presentations. (Doug)
- Question: Where did my nail clippers from my personal wash bag go? And other mysteries (Doug, Matthias)

    - Matthias will mark the shelf more clearly, Björn saw nail clippers downstairs

    - Being on the topic of bathroom shelves Bodhi gives a small introduction on the toothbrush system: 2 jars marked with 'even month' and 'uneven month', put the toothbrush you used in the fitting jar.

    - Sort out everything

- Mold-action required.

    - Matthias proposed to keep all window sills clear to prevent condensation as much as possible.

    - Doug will take action about mold this week.

- Write-up from business planning party to be made (Doug)
 - Brief overview of tech situation done: https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-public/blob/master/webServicesSummary.md Still to be completed. Any disagreements so far?  (Doug)
- More opportunities to collect greywater; needs coordination with all people.

    - We have two toilets that flush with greywater now, but it's not enough. What to do about it? Matthias proposes to just wait and see for a while. Tilmann points out that the staircase toilets won't flush if the greywater tanks are empty, so people need to use buckets in those cases. All are up for making experiments with different kinds of grey water to see how it behaves nd if it can be used for flushing as well.

- Doug proposes to keep the tea pots in one place. we should get more of the big thermos, but for now we keep the big one in the living room or kitchen, but the small ones can travel.
- Laurina asks to be evaluated until Sunday morning. (Friday 10am)

- From last week:
  - Bauwoche planning: https://pad.systemli.org/p/buildingWeekPlanning
  - Crap beside bins cleared, stones re-stacked, 0# toilet fixed and 'ceremoniously opened',
  - Did Bodhi talk to Björn about heating? - Yes, dragon room is not heated anymore.
  - Did Bodhi talk to Steffen about filming? - Yes, Steffen is most likely coming for the building week and will stay for some weeks afterwards. He's happy to bring his equipment
  - Matthias researched legal requirements. We can schedule the meeting during the next roadmap meeting (some months away.) Remove the event pages from the website?
  - Privacy concerns: Janina added section to Visitors doc. Were any files hidden?
  - Did Janina draft a donations poster? - No, because she still needs to get the figures out our expenses.
  - Brief year planning happened. Looks like there will be a tour(s) to Sweden. Members/volunteers going to festivals/travelling recommended to add away-time to calendar.

### 7. Next facilitator
- Doug
