---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2018-04-09"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

<!--
Hello facilitator/notary! Thank you for your services. Here is some advice for facilitating coordination meetings:
  - Prepare the meeting a bit beforehand (find out about evaluations, gas, electricity and water usages, waste collections). You can ask others to assist you.
  - Notify people 10 minutes before the meeting starts. (Watching the clock is not super fun, people will be grateful if you do it for them.)
  - Start at 10:00 sharp, or earlier if everyone is there. (Waiting is time-wasting, be a time-saver!)
  - If you don't want to take notes yourself ask someone else to take care of that. (This pad can easily be used to read from and write in simultaneously.)
  - Go through the ordered points in order, even if nothing has changed. (They are arranged to try and get the most relevant information to most people.)
  - Feel welcome to moderate conversation if off-topic or too detailed. (Are listeners interested? Are speakers satisfied? Can you identify a sub-group?)
  - Try to finish the meeting before 11:00. (There is always more to talk about and it's important for people to know that CoMes don't take forever.)
  - Leave the room once the meeting has ended. (This sends a clear signal to everyone else that they can also leave and get on with their day.)
  - Take care that the meeting minutes will be put to kanthaus.online. (If you don't know how to do it, ask someone to help you with it. But do it today!)
  - Have fun!
-->

- Date: 2018-04-09
- Facilitator: Bodhi
- Notary: Janina
- Present: Janina, Michal, Björn, Dennis, Silvan, Adam, Thomas, Doug, Wolfi, Tilmann, Bodhi, Lara, Laurina, Matthias

===

### 1. People arriving and leaving
Humus people left and Thomas arrived on Sunday (yesterday)
Rosina arrives on Monday (today)
10-15 Freedom of Movement people arriving on Tuesday (tomorrow) for one night
Björn, Wolfi, Kenya and Georg leave on Wednesday for Portugal
Lara and Dennis leave on Wednesday as well
Ellen (friend of Janina) arrives on Sunday night (~ 11pm) and stays for a week
Emily (Doug's cousin) might arrive on Sunday as well and stay for some days
Isabel might come on the weekend

### 2. Evaluations (Current Position, days til evaluation)
Adam

People we need to evaluate the next time they walk through our door:
Anja!!! She's at 25 days!
Findus: 14 days
Nancy: 15 days
Frank: 18 days
Berit: 19 days
Lise: 64 days (for Volunteers and Members the days passing are counted and not the days spent inside the space!)

### 3. Changes to Constitution
- Janina has been collecting points to be changed in #kanthaus-governance. Please get involved!

### 4. Changes to Collective Agreements
-

### 5. Information (e.g. announcements, events, etc)
- Waste collection: (see https://cloud.kanthaus.online/apps/calendar/ müll calender): next week Monday: paper
- Food pickups: (see https://foodsharing.de ): Landgut Nemt, Wednesday, 18:00: Titi will do it
- Gas (0.545€ per m³ + 0,23€ per day):
  - Last week:€3.42 per day
  - This week:€0.54 per day
- Gas bottles bought (€12): 0
- Water (5€ per m³):
  - Last week: €2.60 per day
  - This week: €3.16 per day
- Electricity usage (0.2595€ per kWh and 0,245 per day):
  - Last week: €3.48 per day
  - This week: €4.06 per day
- Income: 60€
- Power hour: Thursday, 10:00
- Sharing event: Friday, 13:00: Matthias facitilates
- Repair Cafe: Tuesday, 17:00
- Noomap introduction on Thursday at 5 pm in piano room
- Please collect ALL SMALL plastic pots that can be used to store/sort things like electronic components in a shelf. Min height: 4cm, max height: 10cm (small joghurt cups up to strawberry cups) Still valid!
- We still don't have a proper waste collection calendar, so we can only estimate the times of organic waste collection. Björn will call Veolia to change that.

### 6. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, etc)
- The room booking system is now in effect! Use it! If you use a room without putting your name on the reservation sheet on the door it's _not private_! Doug, Matthias and Wolfi have some concerns about the complexity of the system. Janina is happy about more in-depth talks.
- We need to solve the Problem of consumption items: toilet paper, tissue, band-aids. There are so often none but they are necessary when we want to welcome guests and for some of us. (Bodhi) 
  - Adam volunteered to always buy toilet paper when it runs low
  - Janina thinks that doesn't solve the bigger problem, because there are cases like events when it's perfectly reasonable to have it available
  - Doug proposes to have a kinda hidden toilet roll storage, potentially don't put toilet paper directly in 
  - Meeting tomorrow at noon to further discuss this. with doug, bodhi, michal
- Freedom of movement people: Simply put them in the piano room for sleeping? They also asked for some space to present stuff - they're circus people after all - I don't know what that means in detail though. (Janina)
  - Sounds good. Adam is concerned that having them hold a public event at Kanthaus could be a bit inflammatory after the recent attacks on NFW people's restaurants. Janina thinks that's not gonna happen, and what they do in the city is their thing anyways...
- Campfire & closing windows (Matthias) Yesterday there was quite some smell inside from the fire, Matthias and Lara were disturbed by it. Also we don't actually have dry wood, everything we burn is fresh from this year or contaminated with DDT - not a very good idea to burn it. This is a call for awareness and not a general rule, but maybe we should keep the/some windows closed when there's a fire going in the garden.
- Dishwasher introduction /signs? (Matthias) Yesterday there were dishes in the dishwasher which were not really clean, this happens when the water cannot reach everywhere, because the rotating thing is blocked. Pizzalab has a nice sign for that, should we put it up as well?
  - We wanted a sign comitte, that makes nicely layouted, uniform signs. Silvan is up for contributing design. Matthias is up for contributing content. Tilmann and Bodhi also added things.
  - There should be a sign committee meeting soon! Tommorow at 2pm
- Sleeping rooms and uncovered mattresses? (Matthias)
  - Matthias doesn't see any reason to have any mattress uncovered in our house. Proposal: If someone removes a cover they should immediately replace it or not remove it to begin with.
- Laundry with eco setting (Matthias)
  - The eco setting reduces the temperature below the one indicated, so if one wants to make sure that some laundry is washed at 60°C don't use the eco setting! 
- Snack room and fridge (Bodhi)
  - Any resistance towards making the former bathroom on K20-1-1 into a snack kitchen with fridge, microwave, toaster and so on? This would prevent people from standing in the way of people who are actually cooking, just because they want to have some tea.
  - No resistance voiced, Bodhi will go ahead.
- Use greywater toilets (Bodhi)
  - Lower staircase toilet needs to be made nicer! Janina, Matthias, Tilmann, Bodhi, Silvan are interested in doing this. Also sink needs to be attached.
  - Matthias says a bucket unter the sink is enough
  - Making-toilet-beautiful meeting on Wednesday after breakfast
- Shitty toilets in K22: Matthias had unpleasant experiences in K22-2 bathroom.
  - Doug will buy toilet brushes to have one toilet brush in every toilet (or at least feel responsible that they are bought).
- Why are so many blanket covers not inside out anymore after drying outside? They are when I put them to the laundry and they need to be when I put them on a blanket again, so..? (Janina)
  - Matthias says they turn themselves in the washing maschine and also that it makes sense to wash them not inside out so that hair and such can get removed easier.
- Lara wants to know if the Humus people can get some things for the festival: Walkie-talkies, blankets and duvets, herbs, pavillon, foodsharing pr material
  - Bodhi says everything should be possible except the pavillon.

- Personal stuff in the communal closet -> away from the floor. Claim a compartment for everyday use and put the stuff you don't need on top of the closet. Doug: This normally only concerns new people, right? We should tell them personally. Matthias: We should make a sign, this is a recurring thing. --> sign committee!
- We have two more "ready-to-be-used" computers. Ideas for where to put them? What about the one in the K20-1-4 office? One in the silent office. The other one will still be decided.
we now have 3  "ready-to-be-used" computers: 1 in office, 

### 7. Next facilitator
Doug
