---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2018-01-29"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

- Date: 2018-01-29
- Facilitator: Tilmann
- Notary: Tilmann
- Present: Matthias, Janina, Doug, Björn, Bodhi, Tilmann

===

### 1. People arriving and leaving
- Steffen brings KMW tonight, leaves early next morning
- Joe, Paul, Danny, Lars Sa-Mo

### 2. Evaluations (Current Position, days til evaluation)
- Silvan (Visitor, -16) - scheduled Tue 17:00
- Wolfi (Volunteer, ~14 days)

### 3. Changes to Constitution
-

### 4. Changes to Collective Agreements
-

### 5. Information (e.g. announcements, events, etc)
- Waste collection: (see https://abfallkalender.kell-gmbh.de/abfallkalender3.php?jahr=2018&str_id=245): Thursday Biomüll, Friday Gelber Sack
- Food pickups: (see https://foodsharing.de ): Landgut Nemt, Weds, 18:00, Tuesday 12:00 Kräuterfee
- Gas usage (0.70€ per m²):
  - Last week: (6,30€ per day)
  - This week: 6.30 € per day
- Gas bottles exchanged: 1 Kitchen (last week)
- Water usage(5€ per m³):
  - Last week: (2,86€ per day)
  - This week: 1.81 € per day
- Electricity usage (0.28€ per kWh):
  - Last week:  (2,20€ per day)
  - This week: 1.68 € per day
- Income: 20 €
- Power hour: Thursday, 10:00
- Sharing event: Friday, 5pm cloud room. Talking circle
- Other:
- There were many changes on the website kanthaus.online lately! Have a look if you didn't in a while... ;)
- Björn and Janina asked Noreen to take them to Leipzig. The taxi will come Wednesday around 8:30am, there's probably still 2 spots vacant.
- Bauwoche starts today

### 6. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, etc)
- Personal projects presentation, 19:00, Tue Jan 31st. (Doug)
- New slack channel for people that currently reside in kanthaus, like we always had at wuppdays :) (Bodhi)
- Kanthaus motto changed to "A house for sharing" / "Ein Haus zum Teilen" (Doug/Janina) - German version with capital or lowercase 't'..?
- foodsharing February starts! Anybody interested in taking part in PR stuff like putting posters in shop windows, a distribution action at some point and maybe even ringing at people's door and presenting foodsharing to them?
- Janina asked Laura (Leipzig-East BOT) for food to distribute and said that we could go get it by car if necessary. Resistance? Other proposals?
- Foodsharing.de boards wants to do their board meeting here, 24.3. + 25.3., Matthias will reply.
- We got a request from Dennis to visit us in March and as well if they could have 1+ Humusfestival organisation meetings here. See #kanthaus-mails. One of 22. - 25.3, 29.3 - 1.4, 5. - 8.4. -  They are welcome in April, Janina will reply.
- Laurina had the idea to form a collective agreement on how to handle press. We want to publish the articles & photos on our homepage. Re-address next come.
- Kanthaus, with capital 'K', without 'the'. (Doug and Janina, QC.)
- foodsharing.de with small 'f', all other Foodsharing with capital 'F'. (Doug and Janina, QC.)
- Shower in K20 seals are broken, leaks "quite much" to the floor
- We mark a Thermoskanne for plain hot water
- Unplug unused devices to reduce energy usage


### 7. Next facilitator
- ?
