---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2018-01-22"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

- Date: 2018-01-22
- Facilitator: Doug
- Notary: Doug
- Present: Matthias, Wolfi, Tilmann, Janina, Adam, Isabel, Björn, Doug

===

### 1. People arriving and leaving
- Isabel leaves Friday
- Lise and Bodhi for a week (Bodhi returns sooner)
- Matthias leaves Thursday

### 2. Evaluations (Current Position, days til evaluation)
-

### 3. Changes to Constitution
-

### 4. Changes to Collective Agreements
-

### 5. Information (e.g. announcements, events, etc)
- Waste collection: (see https://abfallkalender.kell-gmbh.de/abfallkalender3.php?jahr=2018&str_id=245): Papier am Montag (heute), Hausmüll am Dienstag (morgan.)
- Food pickups: (see https://karrot.world ): Landgut Nemt, Weds, 18:00
- Gas usage (0.70€ per m²):
  - Last week:  63m³ in 7 days (6,30€ per day)
  - This week: ?
- Gas bottles exchanged:
- Water usage(5€ per m³):
  - Last week: 4m³ in 7 days (2,86€ per day)
  - This week: ?
- Electricity usage (0.28€ per kWh):
  - Last week: 55kWh in 7 days (2,20€ per day)
  - This week: ?
- Income: €28 donation
- Power hour: Thursday, 10:00
- Sharing event: Friday, 5pm cloud room. Talking circle
- Other:
  -  Matthias organized the bathroom shelves.

### 6. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, etc)
- Foodsharing Action Week! https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-public/blob/master/foodsharing/2018-01-04_BjoernsActionWeekPlans.md (Björn, Janina)
- Personal projects presentation, 19:00, Weds Jan 31st. This is during bauwoche! Doesn't need to be too pro to begin with. (Doug)
- Gardening at VK not only possible, but encouraged. (Doug)
- Please buy frying oil instead of using good oil. (Doug)
- Laurina and Lise had the idea of organizing a streetparty in the area Ostvorstadt in Wurzen (our area). The idea is to have it initiated not (only) by kanthausers but by several people who live here, make a few organizing meetings with interested people where responsibilities are identified and split. The proposed date for now is 5.May (Laurina could be in Wurzen, but its during hai in den mai...) another idea was after the highfield/another closer festival so that the food can be eaten. What do you think about it? Is someone interested in helping organizing it? greets from Laurina


- From last week:
  - Constitution change: https://github.com/kanthaus/kanthaus.online/compare/constchange and https://ukuvota.world/#/app/6e9661b0-2d82-715a-87ec-3b5d802e83f9/collect (4 days)
  - Business planning party write-up: https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-public/blob/master/2018-01-13_businessParty.md
  - GIF: mid-Feb
  - Mold: No major action taken.
  - Greywater: Buckets in toilets, not enough?
  - Tech-overview: https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-public/blohb/master/webServicesSummary.md
  - Anti-torrenting clause: in Vis doc



### 7. Next facilitator
- Tilmann
