---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2017-11-28"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---
- Date: 2017-11-28
- Facilitator: Matthias
- Notary: Matthias
- Present: Doug, Bjoern, Janina, Tilmann, Wolfi, Bodhi

### 1. People coming
- Yesterday: Doug, Janina, Wolfi
- Today: Mona, Lou
- Thursday: Laurina, Journalist
- sometime this week maybe: Rosina


### 2. People leaving
- Sunday: Laurina

### 3. New Volunteers


### 4. New Members


### 5. Changes to Constitution


### 6. Changes to Collective Agreements


### 7. Information (e.g. announcements, events, etc)
- Waste collection: (see https://abfallkalender.kell-gmbh.de/abfallkalender3.php?jahr=2017&str_id=245): Nothing.
- Food pickups: (see https://karrot.world) Wednesday: Landgut Nemt (Doug) Today: Kräuterfee (Janina); Thursday: Foodsharing meeting 7pm here.
- Power hour: Thursday, 10:00
- Sharing event: Sunday 3pm (talking/sharing round)
- Water usage: 4000l (~18€) (8 days) vs 2300l (6 days before that)
- Gas usage: 0 m³
- Gas bottle in kitchen exchanged on 2017-11-28, lasted 17 days
- Wednesday 7pm at Uni Leipzig: Resonanz und solidarische Ökonomie - Janina wants to go
- Wednesday 15.30: A person from Finanzamt Grimma comes by to verify that Wandel würzen exists
- Saturday: Doug's birthday! Sauna party at Villa Klug!
- also Saturday: Networking meet-up for Leipzig surroundings initiated by HWR. Janina wrote to them a while ago and wanted to participate

### 8. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, etc)
- ELECTRICITY!!! Let's put pressure on Mitnetz by constantly calling and making them understand our situation! There has to be some kind of priorisation of more urgent cases... (Matthias asks Daniel when the paperwork was transmitted)
- Bodhi and Matthias will install a power socket on svens terrace in the afternoon. Sven comes by to chose a ceiling light for his hallway ~1-2pm and then we go over together.
- Food meeting. Let's find a solution to the growing conflict wrt food supply. This includes the topics 'dding with the car', 'making use of all vs. timely redistribution', 'appropriate use of dry food - what does this mean?', 'appreciation of having freshly prepared meals on a daily basis vs. is that even necessary?' and possibly more. Suggestion: wednesday
- Roadmap-like meeting: Friday afternoon 2pm
- Proposal to use K20-1 and K20-2 bathrooms only for peeing
- Awarenessing that K20-1# toilet door slams when the window is open
- Reevaluate membership after 6 months?

### 9. Next facilitator
- Doug
