---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2018-05-28"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

- Date: 2018-05-28
- Facilitator: Doug
- Notary: Doug, Janina
- Present: Adam, Tilmann, Steffen, Silvan, Doug, Laura, Janina

===

### 1. People arriving and leaving
- Doug leaves today until Friday
- Steffen leaves today
- Laura leaves today
- Isabel will come back today or soon after
- Bodhi might come sometime this week

### 2. Evaluations
- Adam

### 3. Changes to Governance
-

### 4. Resource data
- Water (4.5€ per m³):
  - Last 7 days: 1.85€ / day
  - 7 days before that: €1.75 / day
- Electricity usage (0.2595€ per kWh):
  - Last 7 days: €1.36 / day
  - 7 days before that: €1.71 / day
- Gas bottles bought (€12): 0
- Income (please check the shoe):

### 5. Schedule and commitments
- Monday, check Hausmüll & take-out if necessary:
- Tuesday, Repair Café: Janina will poke Silvan
- Wednesday: Sharing event: Janina
- Wednesday, Landgut Nemt pickup: Tilmann
- Friday, Market and Kräuterfee pickup: Janina
- Next Monday, CoMe: Tilmann

### 6. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, updates, requests, etc)
- Question: Watering the plants in house? - No plan so far. Could become a power hour task. Doug proposes a sheet for power hour tasks that were done last week, then people can decide for themselves what they think should happen this week.
- Question: Black, glass table in private sleeping room is terrible for laptop work. It's not broad enough and mice don't work without a mat. Can I exchange it? Does anyone actually like it? (Doug) - Doug hates it, Janina likes it. Where to put it so that it makes sense? Exchange it with the wooden table in the futon room. (Side topic: Is there electricity in the private sleeping room? No, seems not.)
- Request: someone to buy the smoke alarms  https://www.pearl.de/a-NX5663-3111.shtml?vid=917&wa_id=40&wa_num=4114&utm_source=googleps&utm_medium=cpc&gclid=EAIaIQobChMI796k9uuH2wIVCmQZCh1AzAVZEAkYCCABEgI7vvD_BwE  and 1-2 fire blankets? (Doug) - Tilmann will buy the pearl alarms, and also looks for the fore blankets on there.
- RFC: private room system/info prototype in k22. I would integrate minor changes then apply to all private rooms. (Doug)
- About food. I think notifying people in private rooms about communal food is totally fine: it happens in normal homes, WG's, etc. Perhaps we can additionally use a signal of 5 short bell-rings to indicate food will start to be eaten in 5 minutes? Also, I think it's totally fine not to save food for (notified) people unless they request it. - The sound signal seems to be an active task for creative people. The door bell just sounds too awful, but we don't have a nice gong... Generally there is no resistance to knocking on private doors to inform people in there about food.
- personal project updates
  - max. 10 minutes
  - max. 10 slides
  - be prepared and have fun, otherwise better to spectate
- spring milestone review (what we did) & retrospective (how we did it)
  - aim: understand what was achieved, celebrate the good and think about how to improve the bad
  - go through gitlab issues
  - acknowledge work not covered in issues or PPU (potentially a lot)
  - identify what we (didn't) like about how Spring went
- vision session
  - aim: dare to explore what inspires us
  - socio-econo-politico spheres (kh, kantstrasse, oststadt...)
  - 200 year plan
- summer roadmap planning
  - aim: a list of ambitious, achievable and self-assigned tasks on gitlab
  - what could you do? how many days are you here (mean estimate) / 2
  - what do you want to do? Individual house tour
  - what do you want to commit to?
- If anybody wanted to make more window holder thingies, then Doug will be very happy.
- The Auerworld stuff was moved outside the dragon room and into K22, next to the random stuff storage.

