---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: 2017-10-23
---
<!-- Hello facilitator/notary! Thank you for your services. Here is some advice for facilitating coordination meetings:
  - Notify people 10 minutes before the meeting starts. (Watching the clock is not super fun, people will be grateful if you do it for them.)
  - Start at 10:00 sharp, or earlier if everyone is there. (Waiting is time-wasting, be a time-saver!)
  - Go through the ordered points in order, even if nothing has changed. (They are arranged to try and get the most relevant information to most people.)
  - Feel welcome to moderate conversation if off-topic or too detailed. (Are listeners interested? Are speakers satisfied? Can you identify a sub-group?)
  - Try to finish the meeting before 11:00. (There is always more to talk about and it's important for people to know that CoMes don't take forever.)
  - Leave the room once the meeting has ended. (This sends a clear signal to everyone else that they can also leave and get on with their day.)
  - Have fun!
-->

- Date: 2017-10-23
- Facilitator: Nick
- Notary: Nick
- Present: Nick, Cille, Doug, Chandi, Mona, Max

### 1. People coming this week

- Matthias (23rd)
- Silvan (23rd)
- Janina (~24th or maybe 25th)
- Daniel (~ 25th)
- Max (returns on 29th)
- Foodsharing group arrives on Friday

### 2. People leaving this week

- Max (26th - 29th)

### 3. New Volunteers

- none (Cille and Nick can apply, Nick might)

### 4. New Members

- none

### 5. Changes to Constitution

- none (second round of ongoing decision to go ahead â†’ please make sure Doug/someone does this this week!)

### 6. Changes to Collective Agreements

- none

### 7. Decisions on dates for this week

- Power Hour (default: Thursday, 10am)
- Meeting about group thing (Tuesday 3pm)
- Building block (Tuesday 10am)
- Piano pickup hopefully (Tuesday 6.30pm-7.30 is pickup slot)
- Foodsharing meeting (26th 7pm) - https://www.facebook.com/events/1499258303485105/
- Sharing circle (Wednesday 7pm)
- Wednesday (main day) /Thursday/Friday building/activities days at Villa Klug (sp?)
- Foodsharing group arrives on Friday
- Nicole and Sven maybe some trees/garden/stuff on Friday, ask Doug
- weekly talk either about Harassment or Data Privacy (will decide during talk) (after lunch, 2pm-ish)

### 7. Information (e.g. announcements, events, etc)

- Waste collection: Gelber sack on Friday
- Decision on which online communication tool to use resulted in the continuation of the yunity Slack group https://ukuvota.world/#/app/f6b84e48-d0ad-5384-f301-fbc8d8f70b34/results It's worth mentioning that there was no result which no one opposed (i.e. each option was opposed by at least somebody): it would be worth reevaluating this topic in the future. [Doug]
- Building week at Villa Klug: something for anyone/everyone, Wednesday is the focal day. [Doug]
- Svenicole have a new garden! They get it on the weekend and would be happy for a small work party. [Doug]
- Sven gets a kitchen this week... the idea of having a pizza party has already been seeded. [Doug]
- Daniel is a good person to talk to about mechanical/engineering things... http://solarflower.org/ [Doug]
- Group hosting meeting on tuesday at 3pm (with Janina and Laurina on skype)

### 8. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, etc)

- https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-public/blob/master/kitchenUsage.md \[Mona\] (related to the talks on veganism/speciesism https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-public/blob/master/2017-10_veganismSpeciesism.md [Doug]) 
    - searching feedback and proposals on the document within the next week (so by 30th) ((via whichever mechanism you like)
    - announce in slack
- Proposal: add basic entity relationship diagram to website https://yunity.slack.com/messages/C3RS56Z38/files/F7MGJ186N/ [Doug] 
    - all good!
- Discussion: data privacy. If we have the website as a central, public point, expect people to read it. We need a high level of detail for info to be useful, do we want any person to have this? 
    - wasn't sure about what information is possible to put public... desire for a more rationalized approach (imagine all the key members of society visiting/seeing the content online)
- Discussion: house manual. We now have docs on kitchen use, waste, food rationalization and general recommendations... [Doug] 
    - [Nick] maybe add a gitbook "Kanthaus Handbook" (doug will proceed) -reorganising kitchen [Mona], cloth storage [?]
    - hard for larger numbers of people (maybe add eating facilities in kitchen, maybe more specific cutting space, looking for carrying help)
    - maybe this week is too busy? (but will try and do it early this week, if not next week)
- upstairs storage room 
    - private storage? more people?
    - maybe triggers discussion about private storage
    - try and move some of the new storage in k22 into the room
    - some disagreement about having things in the corridor
    - maybe is leak water / mould inside the little room in bathroom (something B) -courtyard/garden proposal [Mona]
    - would need a few months of prep work, to be ready for growing in the spring
    - future more specific work to be co-ordinated in the future
- carboard thing in kitchen about vegan stuff [Nick] 
    - tricky topic, not time now, nick feels uncomfortable
    - move to post meeting discussion
- Opinions on sharing circles [Doug] 
    - can be very different, is still possible to include larger groups of people (or visiting people)
    - you never have to be more open than you want
    - concerns that it can go on for a very long time (people break up when >8 people sometimes)
    - is it exlusionary to have it with just "us" (who is us), can be for self organisation, so it's ok 
        - chandi would enjoy more having less breakdown between kanthaus people and guests
    - cille agrees to ideas but it might not happen like that in reality
    - some interest from doug/cille/chandi to explore the topic more perhaps?
- extension cord from Sven [Chandi] 
    - matthias does not want to overuse his hospitality (maybe we will really need it one day)
    - library option is another one, NDK is another option
    - chandi would appreciate more access to electricity

### 9. Next facilitator

Mona